Title: A letter from Constance of Hungary (1235, February 12)
Author: Constance of Hungary
Date: 1235, February 12
Recipient: Public

Constance, by the grace of God queen of the Bohemians, greetings to all the faithful of Christ who will see this writing in true salvation. 

Let the present age of men as well as the future that will come in Christ know that we have conferred on the hospital of the monastery of St. Francis in Prague of lady Agnes, our beloved and illustrious daughter, all the heredity which we bought from the brothers of the hospital of St. Mary of the house of Teutonic Knights for the good of our soul, namely the towns: Hloubetin with all the villages appertaining to it, that is Humenec, Hnidosice and also the town of Borotice with all the villages appertaining to it, that is Zupanovice, Drazetice, and the church of St. Peter with the court and town Ribinic with its appurtenances. 

We have handed over said towns to said hospital with all the fields, woods, waters, heredities, men, and all other things appertaining to them to be possessed by perpetual right, except that we wish to be the lady [authority in control] of its fruits until the end of our life, so that we might do with them what seems appropriate to us according to God. 

So that this donation to the hospital may remain valid, stable, and undisturbed in perpetuity, we have had it confirmed by the force of our seal. Witnesses to this act are: Stephen Kersiz, Slava judge of Brecizlav, Nimirus of Posna, Jesuthbor Witoviz, Bun Sdizlaviz, Ninco marshal, Wiceto judge of Pribizlaus, Wseborius of Lesonice, Ruth son of Radost, Demetrius of Dolany, Milota son of Jarognev, Pelei and Wlaken sons of Vol, Qwalec son of Kwaliz, Sudomir of Zeravice, Wizlas son of Woizlai, Peter son of Kwalo. Also chaplains of the court: Cois of Slavicin, Predwoi of Neradice, Lambert layman of Lukov, Bartholomew layman in Kunowice, Bertold parishioner in Budejovice, Absalon layman in Bzenec, and several others. 

Dated at Brno in the year of the lord 1235, the day before the ides of February. We, Wenceslas, fourth king of Bohemia, have had the seal of our highness affixed to confirm and reinforce the donation, all the aforesaid which our mother conferred on the hospital of the monastery of St. Francis of our beloved sister Agnes.